Sociologists call the historical process by which our experiences become put into categories and treated as things the social construction of reality (Roy 5). What does it mean to define the social construction of reality as a historical process? Answer this question by first describing the key stages of this process and then employing this logic to explain how TWO of the following concepts were constructed: the model minority stereotype (Wu), the modern state (O’Neil), Thanksgiving (Loewen), and the mythos of the Yellow Emperor (Billeter). In your conclusion, briefly discuss whether you think it is important to recognize social constructs as historically produced? NOTE: You may choose the modern state or Thanksgiving, but not both.   



What does it mean to define the social construction of reality as a historical process?

1. Key stages of this process
   - process by which our experiences become put into categories and treated as things

2. How two of the following concepts were constructed:
    a. modern state (Billeter), Yellow Emperor (Billeter)

3. Discuss whether it is important to recognize social construct as historically produced (opinion)

"Common sense takes an essentialist perspective and assumes that everything that we see and touch is merely a manifestation of a deeper essence."

"Thomas principle: 'If [people] define situations as real, then they are real in their consequences'" (Roy 10)

Discussion Questions:

1. What is the historical process?
  - Continuity of historical events from which we derive our depiction of the social construct of reality (constructionist perspective)
2. What are the key stages 
   a. Categories of experience that form a continuum, and through this continuum, reality is formed
   b. Naming of construct: because a ___ ___ becomes reification
3. What are its components 

(1) Key stages
Three paths:
- reification - "'facts' originally merely someone's ideas, speculations or theoreies take on a reality of their own." (Roy 19)  -- "reification is a process"
- instituttionalizatione - "integrates reified processes into activities and categories" (Roy 20)
- contestation - disaffected groups fight back
Path dependence - "tendency for innovations once they are institutionalized to reproduce the same pattern over time" (Roy 21)
church -> government organizations -> corporations
social construction of identity - ethnic, national, patriotic (national - common pol aspiration)
"Constructed philosophies cannot be explained by an essentialist perspective." - rewrite in some form
investiture in institutions - what helps reification
charter myth - origin myth

(2) Logical application to examples (modern state (O'Neil), Yellow Emperor (Billeter))

O'NEIL -------

"Having to reconcile freedom and equality in turn raises questions about where power should reside and toward what end. Alongside the city, the state emerged to answer these questions." (O'Neil 33)

The term country can be taken as shorthand for the combined political entities defined so far--state, regime, government--as well as for the people who live within that political system." - O'Neil 32

"sovereignty emerged through a 'social contract' between rulers and ruled" (O'Neil 34)
sovereignty - independent of rivals
"[a] state [is] the organization that maintains a monopoly of violence over its territory" 28
"[a] regime...is defined as the fundamental rules and norms of politics" (O'Neil 29)
"government can be defined as the leadership that runs the state" (O'Neil 31)
"States...appear to have emerged out of this history of violence" (O'Neil 34)

BILLETER --------
"[The Shaanxi Qingming Festival] was only attended by overseas Chinese and a few regional and central government officials, who were invited by the Shaanxi authorities." (Billeter 44)
"This cult was suppressed during the Cultural Revolution and revived in 1979." (Billeter 45)
the tomb of Huangdi appears in the list of the hundred places of national importance drawn up by the “campaign for patriotic education"" (B 45)
"The historian Sima Qian...reports that his sovereign...held a ceremony to honour Huangdi on Mount Qiao in 110 BC. Thereafter, emperors of many dynasties...sent envoys to pay him similar homage" (Billeter 45) -- "the cult of Huangdi became a means of rallying nationalist feeling"
"From being an instru ment for legitimising the power of the emperor, it became a tribune for the expression of the new Chinese nationalist and revolutionary aspirations." (B 45)
"The eulogy is even more explicit on the subject of Hong Kong: "Today we bring comfort to our found ing ancestor: Hong Kong is about to return to the motherland"" (B. 49) [First ryukyu, korea, taiwan, now hong kong]
"Linked with this theme of continuity is that of restoring China to her former glory." (B.45)
What is the definition of the Chinese nation?



Characteristics of a modern state
- monopoly of violence (German scholar Max Weber, Politics as a Vocation)
- establishes institutions to carry out violence
- is sovereign
- different from past societal organizations (?)

Confucianism
- Analects described by disciples, "rujia" not invented until Han dynasty, maintained up to PRC
- Tang dynasty, civil service based on merit
- CCP reinvented Confucianism (concept of zu)

 Adherence to guidelines, essay organization, spelling, grammar, and MLA citations (20 pts)
 Clarity of the explanation of the social construction of reality as a historical process (20 pts) 1/4
 Coherence and accuracy of – as well as quality of evidence for – the first example (25 pts) (5/16)
 Coherence and accuracy of – as well as quality of evidence for – the second example (25 pts) (5/16)
 Depth and nuance of personal reflection in conclusion (10 pts) (1/8)

Your essay must present a clear argument in the introductory paragraph which directly answers the prompt. 
Each body paragraph and the concluding paragraph should have a topic sentence. Finally, your essay should include a title at the top that crisply summarizes your argument.

500 total words
Title: The World as a Continuous, Artificial Ideology (7 words)
Introduction: ~120 words -- clear argument which answers the prompt
P1: ~150 words
P2: ~150 words
C: ~50-60 words

Introduction:
which is derived from his predecessors’ and will influence his successors’
The continuous procedure of contributing to this continuum is thus a historical process.
Humans thus define their own reality, in a process eloquently described by the Thomas principle: “'If [people] define situations as real, then they are real in their consequences'” (Roy 10).

P1:

P2:

Conclusion:







