MODIFIED PROMPT: In “interrupted Memories,” Daniel Sneider argues that the existence of distinct historical memories is a central obstacle to the ability of Asian nations to finally reconcile their still profound tensions over the wartime past (45). 
Compare and contrast TWO national narratives of World War II from Sneider’s chapter and discuss why these narratives differ. Your thesis should directly address this “why” question. Remember to cite at least one other reading. In your conclusion, share your perspective on how tensions over the wartime past may complicate diplomatic relations between these two countries and whether these tensions can be overcome. 

MODIFIED GRADING RUBRIC (100 possible points): 
* Adherence to guidelines, essay organization, spelling, grammar, and MLA citations (20 pts) 
* Coherence and accuracy of – as well as quality of evidence for – the first national narrative (25 pts) 
* Coherence and accuracy of – as well as quality of evidence for – the second national narrative (25 pts) 
* Analytical clarity of the thesis (15 pts) 
* Depth and nuance of personal reflection in conclusion (15 pts)

two obstacles to understanding how historical memory about wartime period has been formed
  - existence of persistent national myths and lack of comparative context

"The existence of distinct historical memories is a central obstacle to the ability of Asian nations to finally reconcile their still profound tensions over their wartime past." - Sneider 45

"That reality continues to shape current international relations in Northeast Asia, even acting as a source of tension and conflict" - Sneider 45

"Narratives about the wartime period are fashioned to serve the needs of regime legitimacy in China, Korea, and Japan[, Rozman writes]" - Sneider 46

"There are competing narratives regarding the war in Japan -- a conservative, or revisionist, narrative that does indeed include those who deny Japan's aggressive intent and defend its wartime record; a progressive narrative that embraces Japan's responsibility as the aggressor in both the Asian and Pacific theaters of the war, as well as its record of war crimes; and a pacifist narrative that sees war itself as a crime, holding both Japanese militarism and the Allied invaders responsible for the destruction wrought by the war. What all three narratives do share is a sense of Japan's victimization." - Sneider 46

LDP - conservative party, responsible for conservative narrative, denies war crimes

Competing narratives;

"US appointment of wartime officials led to interrupting of internal contest over wartime memory" - Sneider ??

"Scant reference is given to problems of collaboration and even support for the Japanese colonizer and invader since it does not meet the more urgent need to use the past to shape national identity." - Sneider 68

Yomiuri Shimbun - newspaper which said "Who was responsible?" Concluded decisively "Japan"

Institutionalization: Textbooks, museums, memorials[, Internet (China)], National Holidays
Conceptual Frameworks -
  othering
  nationalism (imagined communities); yellow emperor
  social construction of reality
  legitimacy (essentialism)
  modern state (O'Neil)

Chinese narrative:
  Regime/party: CCP
  Spotlighted: Nanjing massacre, CCP's leadership during war; heroic struggle
  Aggressor: Japanese ; Victim: Chinese
  Narrative changes as time goes on (Who in power)
  Each 'period' has its own narrative
  Left out: America's role in the war (atomic bombs), KMT
  Institutionalized: museums, textbooks, memorials, Internet 
    Museum of the War of Chinese People's Resistance Against Japanese Aggression
    Nanjing memorial

Japanese narrative (Conservative, LDP):
  Regime/party: LDP
  Spotlighted: nuclear bombs, rebuilding; western colonialism
  Left out: war crimes (Unit 731), comfort women
  Institutionalized: Yasukuni, LDP rhetoric, museums (Yushukan), Okinawa museum (Progressive), Hiroshima museum (Pacifist)

Compare and contrast TWO national narratives of World War II from Sneider’s chapter and discuss why these narratives differ.
  The narratives differ because the rationale behind each is different; China considers it from the point of view of an aggressor invading and destroying the traditional way of life; Japan considers it to be a war to liberate Asia from Western colonizers.
  Why do the Japanese conservatives not open up to war crimes?
    "Japanese right-wing forces vigorously deny that the Japanese military committed the Nanjing massacre -- the ultimate act of human cruelty -- during its invasion of China. They consider it a type of wartime behavior. What do you think of the issue?" - Sneider 58
  Why do the Japanese nationalists not believe they were the aggressor?
    Because they view the "war as the inevitable product of Japan's efforts to forge a pan-Asian peace, even to liberate Asia from Western colonialism, in the face of outside encroachment." - Sneider 67

Yasukuni - "remains a highly symbolic evocation of the trilogy of emperor, Shintoism and military prowess that was the centerpiece of Japanese wartime ideology. 

  

From previous essay:
  For the modern state example, we were hoping to see mention of Westphalia and colonization.

'anomaly of nationalism'

"Begun in 1991, the campaign [Patriotic Education Campaign] was designed to provide young Chinese with a version of history that de-emphasized the Maoist-era narrative of class struggle within China in favor of the depiction of China as a victim of humiliation and brutality at the hands of foreign powers, going back to the days of the Opium Wars." (Sneider 54)

Introduction: (85 words)
  "Asia has barely been able to reconcile over the war".
  Unlike in Europe, where the Axis powers have made complete peace with the Allies, East Asia seems almost cryogenically frozen in the time frame immediately following the second world war, with China and Japan seemingly unable to reconcile. This difficulty arises from the differences in their respective narratives. The Chinese and conservative Japanese narratives differ primarily due to their rationale; China considers it from the point of view of an aggressor invading and destroying the traditional way of life; Japan considers it to be a war to liberate Asia from Western colonizers. Thus, while China wants Japan to apologize for its war crimes, Japan does not recognize their crimes as being wantonly brutal.

Japan, in its Cold War role as the principal combatant against a communist China, faced no need to reconcile its trifurcated historical chronicles into a single narrative. 
  Thesis: 

Paragraph 1: China (100)
  The Chinese narrative was carefully constructed in order to further the charismatic legitimacy of the CCP, so it naturally changed over time. Immediately after the Chinese Civil War, discussion of Japanese atrocities took a backseat as the CCP chose to condemn the KMT's 'no-resistance policy' instead. Chinese students during this period were queried on "the attitudes of the CCP and the KMT in confronting the invasion by Japanese imperalism" (Sneider 57). However, after the Tiananmen Square incident, the CCP decided to portray itself as the savior of China from the hundred year "humiliation and brutality at the hands of foreign powers" through the Patriotic Education Campaign (Sneider 54).

Paragraph 2: Japan (100)
  Unlike China, Japan has not had the benefit of homogeneity of historical consensus regarding the war. Three main perspectives exist within Japanese discourse -- conservatism, progressivism and pacifism -- of which the most poltiically voiced is the conservatist. Institutionalized through the policies, revised textbooks and rhetoric of the conservative LDP, the conservative narrative is also the most nationalist, regarding the "war as the inevitable product of Japan's efforts to forge a pan-Asian peace, even to liberate Asia from Western colonialism, in the face of outside encroachment" (Sneider 67). As such, right-wing forces regard not Japan as the aggressor, but Western forces. Such rhetoric initially came about through MacArthur's decision to exonerate the Emperor from the Tokyo War Crimes Tribunal, which allowed Japanese to "avoid serious examination of their own responsibility" (Sneider 73).

Paragraph 3: Japan vs China (130)
  China considers Japan aggressor;

Conclusion: (85 words)
In your conclusion, share your perspective on how tensions over the wartime past may complicate diplomatic relations between these two countries and whether these tensions can be overcome. 

the inability for both countries to compromise can be summed up by a textbook question from China's Patriotic Education Campaign. "'Japanese...forces vigorously deny that the Japanese military committed the Nanjing massacre -- the ultimate act of human cruelty -- during its invasion of China. They consider it a type of wartime behavior'" (Sneider 58). While the conservatives insist that the war was for the greater good of Asia, the fundamental problem of recognition and regret over war crimes performed in China will never be addressed. As long as the official Japanese narrative does not consider its war crimes to be of relevant importance, peace between the two countries cannot hold. 

Why do the narratives differ?
They differ because 
  
  

Introduction: war crimes
Paragraph 1: Brief history of Chinese narrative
Paragraph 2: Brief history of Japanese conservative narrative
Paragraph 3: Why the narratives differ through war crime recognition
Conclusion: 
